---
title: "Reading list"
description: "My books/audiobooks list in progress... for years"
publishDate: "02 Dec 2023"
tags: ["books"]
---

Reading has been both a passion and a challenge for me over the years. My bookshelf seems to have accrued a tech debt of its own since 3-4 years, with an increasing number of tantalizing books that I shuffle in my mind, eager to absorb their wisdom but often delaying the pleasure of delving into their pages.

Here is a glimpse of my current struggle.

# What

## Recently Added/Started:

Career progression

- **Team topologies: Organizing Business and Technology Teams for fast flow** by Matthew Skelton & Manuel Pais
  > A comprehensive guide on optimizing team structures for efficient workflow and productivity.
- **The Culture Map: Breaking Through the Invisible Boundaries of Global Business** by Erin Mayer
  > An insightful exploration of navigating cultural differences for successful global collaborations.
- **Staff Engineer: Leadership beyond the management track Kindle Edition** by Will Larson
  > Explores the realms of technical leadership beyond managerial paths, offering invaluable insights for engineering professionals.

---

Understanding the world & people

Vaclav Smil, one of Bill Gates' favorite authors, is very prolific on the matter. Please stop

- **Invention and Innovation: A Brief History of Hype and Failure** by Vaclav Smil
- **How the World Really Works: How Science Can Set Us Straight on Our Past, Present and Future** by Vaclav Smil

---

Tech knowledge

- **Designing Data-Intensive Applications** by Martin Kleppmann

Damn i need to start those...

- **Designing Event-Driven Systems** by Ben Stopford
- **Kafka in action** by Dylan Scott & Viktor Gamov & Dave Klein

## ...Still in Progress

Fiction

- _Dune's cycle_ by Frank Herbert
- _Brume_ by Stephen King

---

Understanding the world & people

- **Growth, from microorganisms to megacities** by Vaclav Smil

This one is incredibly informative, to the extent that it's quite challenging to push through

- **Thinking, fast and slow** by Kahneman Daniel
- **Où en sommes-nous ?: Une esquisse de l'histoire humaine** by Emmanuel Todd

## Would Read Again or in Another Life

All Isac Asimov & Philip K. Dick, some Tom Clancy.

Some data structure books.

# How

It would not be complete without discussing the tech stack I use to read (or attempt to read).

- Kindle Paperwhite 7th generation: A neat little device.
- Calibre: The go-to software for managing an electronic library and transferring files.
